Auth: Add support for JWT Authentication (#29995)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/auth/jwt.md

+++
title = "JWT Authentication"

> description = "Grafana JWT Authentication Guide "

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description = "Grafana JWT Authentication"
```

keywords = ["grafana", "configuration", "documentation", "jwt"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/installation/jwt/"]
weight = 300
+++

# JWT Authentication

> You can configure Grafana to accept a JWT token provided in HTTP header.
> 
> JWT token is being verified using a public key(s) stored in file or provided by JWKS endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure Grafana to accept a JWT token provided in the HTTP header. The token is verified using a public key(s) stored in a file or provided by the JWKS endpoint.
 ```

> 
> You can specify some of the json fields embedded in JWT (called claims) to use either as a login or as an email to sign in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify some of the JSON fields embedded in JWT (called claims) to use either as a login or as an email to sign in.
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: Please make these numbered lists, and update doc content to match the style in other topics.

Any example you want to show can be in code.

+++
title = "JWT Authentication"
description = "Grafana JWT Authentication"
keywords = ["grafana", "configuration", "documentation", "jwt", "jwk"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/installation/jwt/"]

> weight = 300

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
weight = 250
```

+++

> # JWT Authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# JWT authentication
```

> You can configure Grafana to accept a JWT token provided in the HTTP header. The token is verified using a public key(s) stored in a file or provided by the JWKS endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure Grafana to accept a JWT token provided in the HTTP header. The token is verified using a public key or keys stored in a file or provided by the JWKS endpoint.
```

> You can specify some of the JSON fields embedded in JWT (called claims) to use either as a username or as an email to sign in.

Reviewer 2: Unclear. Use either what as a username or email to sign in?

Author: I removed this sentence cause it's too heavyweight for an intro paragraph.
The whole username/email thing is described in the "Configure login claim" section so it's redundant to explain it in the intro.

## Enable JWT

> In order to use JWT authentication you'll first need to enable JWT in the [main config file]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md" >}}) as well as specify the header name that contains a token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use JWT authentication, enable JWT in the [main config file]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md" >}}) and specify the header name that contains a token.
```

```ini
[auth.jwt]
# By default, auth.jwt is disabled.
enabled = true

# HTTP header to look into to get a JWT token.
header_name = X-JWT-Assertion
```

## Configure login claim

> To identify the user, some of the claims needs to be selected as a login info. You could specify a claim that contains either a username or an email of Grafana user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To identify the user, some of the claims needs to be selected as a login info. You could specify a claim that contains either a username or an email of the Grafana user.
```

Typically, the subject claim called `"sub"` would be used as a login but it might also be set to some application specific claim.

```ini
# [auth.jwt]
# ...

> # Specify a claim to use as a username to sign in 

Reviewer 2: This line has no period. Others comment lines do. Please be consistent. We generally put periods at the end of sentences in code comments.

username_claim = sub

# Specify a claim to use as an email to sign in 
email_claim = sub
```

## Signature verification

JSON web token integrity needs to be verified so cryptographic signature is used for this purpose. So we expect that every token must be signed with some known cryptographic key.

> You have a variety of options on how to specify where the key(s) are located.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have a variety of options on how to specify where the keys are located.
```

### Verify token using a JSON Web Key Set loaded from https endpoint

> For more information on JWKS endpoints see [Auth0 docs](https://auth0.com/docs/tokens/json-web-tokens/json-web-key-sets).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information on JWKS endpoints, refer to [Auth0 docs](https://auth0.com/docs/tokens/json-web-tokens/json-web-key-sets).
```

```ini
# [auth.jwt]
# ...

jwk_set_url = https://your-auth-provider.example.com/.well-known/jwks.json

# Cache TTL for data loaded from http endpoint
cache_ttl = 60m
```

### Verify token using a JSON Web Key Set loaded from JSON file

Key set in the same format as in JWKS endpoint but located on disk.

```ini
jwk_set_file = /path/to/jwks.json
```

> ### Verify token using a single key loaded from pem-encoded file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Verify token using a single key loaded from PEM-encoded file
```

+++
title = "JWT Authentication"
description = "Grafana JWT Authentication"
keywords = ["grafana", "configuration", "documentation", "jwt", "jwk"]

> aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/installation/jwt/"]

Reviewer 3: This shouldn't be needed I think since this is a new page.

```suggestion
```

weight = 250
+++

# JWT authentication

> You can configure Grafana to accept a JWT token provided in the HTTP header. The token is verified using a public key or keys stored in a file or provided by the JWKS endpoint.

Reviewer 4: Potential improvement here. WDYT?

```suggestion
You can configure Grafana to accept a JWT token provided in the HTTP header. The token is verified using any of the following:
- PEM-encoded key file
- JSON Web Key Set (JWKS) in a local file 
- JWKS provided by the configured JWKS endpoint
```

## Enable JWT

To use JWT authentication:
1. Enable JWT in the [main config file]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md" >}}).

> 1.  Specify the header name that contains a token.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Specify the header name that contains a token.
```

Reviewer: +1
